Kafka topics have a few options for how they store data.
First, let's review data retention.
Data retention is how Kafka actually stores the data in a topic.
Some topics expire data after a certain period of time.
When the data expires,
Kafka will eventually delete the data from the log on disk.
For example, if the retention time period for a topic is seven days,
after seven days, any data in the topic,
older than that time period will be removed.
Some topics expire data when a certain topic size is reached.
For example, the topic has a retention policy of
no more than one gigabyte and when the one gigabyte threshold is met,
the oldest data in that topic will be deleted.
So in this case, we've had two gigabytes,
we may remove that log.
Some topics use a strategy of both time and size.
In this case, whichever threshold has hit first
is used to trigger log clean up and deletion.
A third option exists known as a compacted topic.
In this scenario, there is no size or time limit for data in the topic.
Instead, the message key is used to identify messages uniquely.
The duplicate key is found,
the latest value for that key is kept in the old messages deleted.
Additionally, if a duplicate key is found with a null body,
the key and the value will be deleted from the topic entirely.
So here you'll notice we have the key a multiple times throughout our logs.
We don't see any other repeated keys.
So when compaction happens,
only one of these logs will be kept.
As you can see, these messages are going to be deleted and removed.
Now, we have only one copy of a.
When creating a topic,
you may also choose a set of compression algorithm on the topic.
Compression can help reduce network overhead in
your cluster as well as reduce the amount of data stored on disk in your broker's.
Kafka supports lz4, ztsd,
snappy, gzip and no compression.
Trade offs in these compression algorithms are essentially out of scope for now.
We're going to review them briefly in a few sections,
but for now, just know that compression exists in these formats.
Finally, a common question that comes up with data management topics is
whether to allow more than one event type in a topic.
For example, maybe you have a purchases topic that includes purchases from
a clothing store and another that includes
purchases from another company that sells groceries.
More than likely, these two companies will have
different ideas of what a purchase event looks like.
This means that all downstream clients will also
have to know the difference between this purchase event types as well.
This is a bad practice and an anti-pattern.
It's a recipe for production outages.
I strongly recommend that you do not mix different types of events in a given stream.
There is very little overhead to adding more topics to a Kafka broker.
But there is a lot of programmatic overhead in parsing
through different types of events in a single Kafka topic.